Caption: welcome everyone
Caption: please take a seat make yourself
Caption: comfortable
Caption: excellent our next speaker is Dylan
Caption: Watson he's going to talk to us today
Caption: about releasing your inner Dev Ops Dylan
Caption: is a fan of cheap wine and fast
Caption: deployments he has spent the last five
Caption: years improving the pace of development
Caption: at Bankwest and has recently started
Caption: with atlassian building out their
Caption: internal continuous deployment platform
Caption: when he's not building out the latest
Caption: hair brain app idea he is playing on the
Caption: trampoline with his two kids welcome
Caption: Dylan
Caption: foreign
Caption: welcome guys uh so
Caption: basically today I want to talk about how
Caption: to build a culture of getting your code
Caption: uh into production quickly safely uh and
Caption: uh reliably
Caption: hey thanks heaps uh all our sponsors
Caption: um they've yeah without this without
Caption: them today you know wouldn't be possible
Caption: okay so first I want to start off with a
Caption: bit of audience participation everyone
Caption: loves the middle audience participation
Caption: I'm sure uh so oh no
Caption: okay try not to touch okay so
Caption: if everyone could put up their hand if
Caption: your team has deployed something to
Caption: production this year
Caption: we'll start ideally a low bar
Caption: so keep your hand up so keep your hand
Caption: up if you your team deploys more often
Caption: than every six months
Caption: cool all right uh what about every month
Caption: okay a few few hands down but still
Caption: pretty good okay every week do you does
Caption: your team deploy every week
Caption: yep few less hands what about every day
Caption: yep much much less hands
Caption: and what about every commit
Caption: okay cool there's there's a few people
Caption: uh awesome uh for the rest of you
Caption: it's definitely possible right uh and
Caption: today I'm going to show you a few
Caption: techniques that you can use uh maybe not
Caption: necessarily to get there but to improve
Caption: your deployment process okay
Caption: uh
Caption: I'm Dylan Watson I love building useful
Caption: software and thinking about better ways
Caption: to get it into the hands of our users
Caption: so first of all I'm going to start off
Caption: with some guiding principles things to
Caption: think about in improving your uh
Caption: path to prod a little case study recent
Caption: project I've been working on and some
Caption: practical techniques that you can use to
Caption: move your code into users hands quickly
Caption: and safely
Caption: uh hopefully there's time for questions
Caption: at the end so
Caption: um I am definitely Keen to get into some
Caption: discussion if you guys
Caption: um have got uh thoughts
Caption: there's going to be some controversial
Caption: stuff ahead uh you won't agree with
Caption: everything I'm sure but that's cool uh
Caption: as I said we can have a chat afterwards
Caption: um I will be Keen to have a discussion
Caption: so first off deploying safe uh deploying
Caption: software safely uh it can be hard
Caption: hopefully that isn't the controversial
Caption: wit
Caption: I'm sure we've all experienced pain in
Caption: deploying software
Caption: uh but it doesn't have to be that way
Caption: so
Caption: I'm sure that we've all got a time when
Caption: uh we've had a painful deployment to
Caption: Pride maybe a late night or something so
Caption: I want you to think about what makes
Caption: deployments hard
Caption: um
Caption: does does anyone have anything that they
Caption: think like what what makes a deployment
Caption: hard anyone have any ideas
Caption: feel free to shout out
Caption: oh yes late night deployments
Caption: gotta love them anything else
Caption: oh testing
Caption: yes so manual testing uh is a huge one
Caption: for sure yep
Caption: um any anything else
Caption: cabs yes okay so approvals and stuff
Caption: like that that's a huge one so things I
Caption: think about uh might be coordination
Caption: between multiple teams okay getting
Caption: getting people to align is always really
Caption: difficult scheduling out of hours
Caption: deployments I'd rather be at home with
Caption: my family
Caption: um batching weeks and weeks of changes
Caption: is super scary you have no idea what
Caption: you're sending into production okay
Caption: manual deployment so any any manual
Caption: steps in your process to production
Caption: really uh that can make things really
Caption: scary they're likely to go wrong
Caption: um you're going to mess something up no
Caption: matter how many times you've done it
Caption: and manual testing
Caption: um
Caption: discuss this as well it's it's Error
Caption: prone okay you want everything to be
Caption: automated in your pipeline as much as
Caption: possible
Caption: and once you actually get the thing into
Caption: production if something goes wrong and
Caption: you can't roll back to a safe State
Caption: easily that's also really scary right so
Caption: all these things build up this fear in
Caption: our deployment process
Caption: hey on the other side of the coin what
Caption: makes deployments easy
Caption: does anyone have any ideas
Caption: sorry
Caption: yes yeah so let's uh less changes going
Caption: into production right
Caption: um things like having your code always
Caption: ready to deploy
Caption: um so you've actually made all the you
Caption: know automated checks before you get to
Caption: production before you even merged your
Caption: code uh no approvals no coordination
Caption: um
Caption: yes uh automated everything basically is
Caption: probably going to be the pattern of this
Caption: talk
Caption: um but yeah manual steps testing or
Caption: approvals for sure and you want to get
Caption: to a point where your deployments rarely
Caption: fail
Caption: um but most of that is about uh is about
Caption: practice and automation
Caption: uh
Caption: so how do we do it
Caption: okay these are the things that I I think
Caption: are a key uh when we're improving our
Caption: deployment process
Caption: so
Caption: first of all uh we'll start off with
Caption: uh I mean my talks releasing the devops
Caption: right so devops is really a mindset a
Caption: mindset about automating or removing the
Caption: steps in your process of deploying prod
Caption: to production and
Caption: being prepared to fail right so you're
Caption: trying things out
Caption: and uh experimenting with your
Caption: deployment process and trying to just
Caption: improve it
Caption: uh back to fundamentals basically what
Caption: we're trying to do is write code deploy
Caption: it to production get it in into the
Caption: hands of our users right that's that's
Caption: ultimately what we're doing here
Caption: so
Caption: we discussed before a small number of
Caption: changes
Caption: less risk right so smaller change you
Caption: make uh you might have uh less risk of
Caption: that failing but also when it does fail
Caption: when uh
Caption: you know exactly what broke right you
Caption: know that one little change you made
Caption: that was the issue you can roll it back
Caption: fix it okay it's it's isolated
Caption: uh you should only merge when it's safe
Caption: for production
Caption: so uh this is more of a yeah again this
Caption: is like a mindset thing uh and in order
Caption: to check that we'll we'll go through the
Caption: techniques and stuff but we want to
Caption: merge and have all the automated safety
Caption: uh and know that um it this thing is as
Caption: safe as possible to go to production
Caption: before you even merge that code
Caption: uh testing is built into the pipeline
Caption: okay that's absolutely critical so
Caption: automated testing
Caption: um and there's you know I could do a
Caption: whole another talk about the types of
Caption: testing but testing has to be built into
Caption: the pipeline uh same with security okay
Caption: so uh it's that's just another aspect
Caption: that we have to consider when we're
Caption: um so so this is like your you know code
Caption: code scanning or vulnerability checking
Caption: all this sort of stuff needs to be
Caption: automated and will stop you from going
Caption: to production if these things break
Caption: um and lastly once you actually get your
Caption: code into production you need to observe
Caption: what's happening right you need to know
Caption: so this is like you're logging so
Caption: um logging or
Caption: uh metrics and all this sort of stuff
Caption: you need to know exactly what's going on
Caption: in production so that when things do
Caption: break you can easily track down the
Caption: issue
Caption: and that you know that something is
Caption: broken in the first place
Caption: okay so
Caption: um I just want to chat a little bit
Caption: about recent project I've been working
Caption: on uh at Bankwest uh so this is a home
Caption: loan system with
Caption: depending how you cut the numbers about
Caption: 20 different components so apis and apps
Caption: and around about four teams
Caption: so
Caption: when we sort of started our devops
Caption: journey uh we're making about five
Caption: deployments per month okay uh which is
Caption: is still not terrible but there's
Caption: there's also a few teams involved there
Caption: um and we increased to 55 deployments
Caption: about that around about
Caption: so
Caption: um
Caption: on a global scale that's that's not a
Caption: huge amount but it but it made a big
Caption: difference to us right
Caption: um that's the order of magnitude
Caption: difference
Caption: um so how
Caption: how do we do that right
Caption: we were prepared to fail often okay try
Caption: things out uh we would have the
Caption: engineers in control of deployments and
Caption: our definition of done was in production
Caption: so yeah so experimenting and failing
Caption: often we made failure okay and even
Caption: expected often when we're trying things
Caption: out
Caption: um and because of this we tried lots of
Caption: things failure was cheap okay but we
Caption: also had the backing from our managers
Caption: to push and improve and make these
Caption: changes and
Caption: the expectation is that most of these
Caption: experiments experiments failed but the
Caption: ones that worked
Caption: they had a big impact
Caption: okay
Caption: um another so I think probably the
Caption: biggest one for me is that the engineers
Caption: uh were in control of the deployments so
Caption: uh when we started uh the people doing
Caption: deployments uh the Ops were a totally
Caption: different team
Caption: right they um they sat over there and
Caption: you would say oh I want I want a
Caption: deployment please and you'd have to
Caption: schedule it in and uh in order to
Caption: alleviate a lot of the pressure
Caption: um we we brought that person in so we
Caption: brought one of those Ops people into our
Caption: team okay and that made a huge
Caption: difference for us
Caption: um because it meant that uh all the
Caption: people in the team we had all the all
Caption: the skills in the team to deploy our
Caption: code to production
Caption: um from there that person trained the
Caption: rest of the team and we were able to
Caption: work together Engineers uh that like Dev
Caption: anops to essentially automate our
Caption: pipeline to production
Caption: uh
Caption: so uh to a point where anyone in the
Caption: team could you know just click a button
Caption: so
Caption: um yeah essentially the what's pretty
Caption: common now the the Builder you build it
Caption: you run it concept
Caption: and
Caption: lastly I think the fact that our
Caption: definition of done is in production
Caption: right so you you can't close the ticket
Caption: that you're working on until that thing
Caption: is in the hands of your users and I
Caption: think
Caption: um maybe it's a maybe it's a guilt thing
Caption: but I think that's a it's a or even just
Caption: a visibility thing
Caption: um if if you don't close that particular
Caption: task until it's in production it doesn't
Caption: get forgotten about and you know that
Caption: when things start when Cards start to
Caption: you know pile up uh there's sort of a
Caption: you can feel it here that like you need
Caption: to get that into production that's
Caption: that's a whole bunch of features that
Caption: your users are missing out on
Caption: okay so now I want to share some
Caption: techniques oh uh I now want to share
Caption: some techniques uh that help to deploy
Caption: regularly and safely
Caption: so
Caption: first of all uh we want to separate our
Caption: deployments and our releases
Caption: uh we want to use feature toggles
Caption: and a little thing called expand roll
Caption: out contract
Caption: um which is a really great technique
Caption: some of you probably have used it
Caption: without knowing the name uh but
Caption: basically all these things are about
Caption: taking a considered measured approach
Caption: okay to our deployments
Caption: so yeah deployments and releases so
Caption: first of all
Caption: uh more audience participation
Caption: uh who who dreads deployments
Caption: I I suspect anyone that deploys more of
Caption: less less often than a month probably is
Caption: having these thoughts
Caption: um
Caption: okay and what about who who dreads
Caption: releases
Caption: who have a little think now who thinks I
Caption: asked the same question twice
Caption: that's that's valid okay
Caption: um but uh basically I I'm here to
Caption: basically separate those two concepts
Caption: okay so first of all we'll start with
Caption: some some definitions so deployments are
Caption: basically
Caption: um
Caption: in my eyes moving your code into a
Caption: production environment
Caption: okay ideally there's zero downtime so
Caption: you're using some sort of deployment
Caption: strategy like
Caption: um green blue deploy or something like
Caption: that but ultimately there is no there is
Caption: no downtime in your system
Caption: and it should be a low risk to the
Caption: business it's a technical exercise we're
Caption: just moving some code into a production
Caption: environment
Caption: okay
Caption: and with automation it should happen
Caption: with minimal human interaction
Caption: um uh it also shouldn't be affecting our
Caption: users is a pretty cool pretty cool
Caption: pretty critical one there's zero time
Caption: downtime but there shouldn't really be
Caption: any impact to our users
Caption: on a release on the other hand
Caption: um
Caption: now obviously we had some people that uh
Caption: uh you know thought I was asking the
Caption: same question really deployments and
Caption: releases that's like they're pretty
Caption: ambiguous terms I think I think release
Caption: is a pretty ambiguous term um it's used
Caption: for all sorts of things
Caption: um
Caption: generally I'll probably use the word
Caption: launch right
Caption: so I'll go I'll go through in a sec but
Caption: uh
Caption: a release or a launch is basically about
Caption: launching new functionality to a user
Caption: um and maybe maybe you're only launching
Caption: to some set of users right you're only
Caption: activating the code for for certain
Caption: users
Caption: um and the fact that we're separating
Caption: deployments and releases allows us to
Caption: prepare prepare time for comms or train
Caption: our users or let them know that
Caption: something is something new is coming
Caption: okay it's not going to be like a
Caption: new Facebook release and everyone goes
Caption: oh it's totally changed okay
Caption: um we don't want to end up in that
Caption: situation
Caption: um okay so who cares
Caption: deployments
Caption: the team should care right the team
Caption: doing the work is sending that code into
Caption: production and and they care when things
Caption: break
Caption: okay releases
Caption: we're trying to
Caption: um we're trying to give the user new
Caption: functionality so the user should care
Caption: okay
Caption: um and I think that
Caption: that's what we should be thinking about
Caption: when we're separating things okay so
Caption: anyway how do we separate these two
Caption: things
Caption: basically we're trying to deploy a bunch
Caption: of times
Caption: um
Caption: uh and eventually release
Caption: so
Caption: okay uh basically
Caption: uh
Caption: uh the there's a bunch of different ways
Caption: you can do it but the biggest one
Caption: um I'm sure a bunch of you will know
Caption: feature toggles are the way to do this
Caption: okay
Caption: so
Caption: for those unsure this is a feature
Caption: toggle okay it's essentially just
Caption: something wrapping our code
Caption: um a you know an if block that says if
Caption: this new new feature is on for some
Caption: specific user
Caption: um and you know this thing could be
Caption: tight entirely broken underneath
Caption: ideally it's not but um the the block
Caption: allows us to test
Caption: um test this out test out this new
Caption: feature
Caption: without affecting other users
Caption: so with feed toggles we can deploy our
Caption: changes
Caption: um and they will be inactive okay so
Caption: they won't affect our users
Caption: they can be slowly rolled out to certain
Caption: users and basically they allow features
Caption: to be merged and you know built out
Caption: without affecting other teams as well so
Caption: other teams working in the same on the
Caption: same component in the same area
Caption: unaffected by your your work okay your
Caption: potentially broken new feature
Caption: uh the other dark side of this to
Caption: toggles
Caption: um some of you might have heard about
Caption: the uh night Capital recently
Caption: um that basically didn't forgot to clean
Caption: up a particular toggle and they reused
Caption: the same toggle name and it causes
Caption: caused them to lose millions of dollars
Caption: so the critical part of using feature
Caption: toggles is to clean them up afterwards
Caption: okay so my rule of thumb is uh basically
Caption: once it's on and you've proven that it's
Caption: uh that it's not going to break uh you
Caption: then remove it right it sounds obvious
Caption: but it's it's something that it's often
Caption: gets forgotten about but once you turn
Caption: it on you remove it okay maybe a week or
Caption: whatever but you remove it almost
Caption: straight away
Caption: um so in terms of the process we might
Caption: introduce a new feature with you know if
Caption: this new feature is on for some internal
Caption: user so we turn it on for internal users
Caption: to begin with
Caption: and
Caption: um we can start building out this
Caption: feature so we add some more new shiny
Caption: feature maybe a bug fix okay because our
Caption: users have been using it our internal
Caption: users
Caption: we've been you know dog fooding this
Caption: this particular feature and uh we fix
Caption: some bugs okay after that we start
Caption: turning it on for some specific set of
Caption: customers okay
Caption: and you know maybe we make a a few more
Caption: bug fixes but we're only affecting a
Caption: small subset of users
Caption: and then finally we turn it on for
Caption: everyone
Caption: okay as soon as that happens
Caption: we remove the code remove the Feature
Caption: Feature toggle and everyone has the
Caption: shiny new feature
Caption: so
Caption: um okay so that's about introducing new
Caption: functionality
Caption: when we want to introduce
Caption: say a new
Caption: um a new field or a new endpoint for our
Caption: for our API we use a technique called
Caption: expand rollout contract okay this allows
Caption: us to make
Caption: um
Caption: uh
Caption: basically breaking changes in a um in a
Caption: considered manner
Caption: so um expand roll out contract I'll go
Caption: through it in a sec so
Caption: um
Caption: some more code hopefully it's simple
Caption: enough uh but basically we've got a user
Caption: they've got a name field a surname field
Caption: and some usage of that field
Caption: so we think well actually the name field
Caption: really should be first name okay we want
Caption: to rename this field
Caption: so the first thing to do is we expand
Caption: okay so we add our first name field
Caption: uh
Caption: no one really uses it we've added the
Caption: field
Caption: we deploy that to prod
Caption: and then we want to start we've got this
Caption: new field we want to start using it so
Caption: we make a change
Caption: we start everyone starts to use this
Caption: field okay there might be if it's an API
Caption: there might be multiple other apis
Caption: consuming this particular field okay
Caption: everyone updates to use this new field
Caption: we deploy the prod
Caption: after that uh
Caption: so that's so that's rolling out your
Caption: change right after that you want to
Caption: start to contract so once you've proven
Caption: proven that everyone has stopped using
Caption: that particular field
Caption: you then contract and you remove the now
Caption: defunct unused field okay so this is a
Caption: measured form of deprecating a
Caption: particular field
Caption: so we remove our name field that's no
Caption: longer used and we go about our lives
Caption: after deploying right
Caption: so yeah expand roll out contract so this
Caption: technique is really useful for API
Caption: changes okay it might be Fields might be
Caption: endpoints but it's also really useful
Caption: for database changes you can do the same
Caption: thing and
Caption: uh like Library changes Library changes
Caption: potentially uh
Caption: a bit harder to track down usages but
Caption: um uh yeah if if you can if you can
Caption: understand your users of your library
Caption: then this works just perfectly
Caption: um
Caption: okay obviously
Caption: always deploy the problem
Caption: so
Caption: what given everything now uh what is an
Caption: ideal deploy process look like
Caption: um
Caption: so we've got
Caption: automated tests and security scanning
Caption: we've got an automated deployment
Caption: process okay and it's really quick to
Caption: roll back
Caption: and really quick to get you back into a
Caption: safe State when things go wrong
Caption: uh our changes are toggled so when we
Caption: deploy them they have no user impact
Caption: initially until we're ready okay until
Caption: our users are ready until we've tested
Caption: that feature and we're happy
Caption: and that means that we minimize the
Caption: number of approvals required after
Caption: you've merged your code you can have as
Caption: much process as you want before you
Caption: merge your code as much as you need but
Caption: ideally after you've merged that code it
Caption: should be ready to go to production
Caption: and uh
Caption: it's all automated and our changes are
Caption: backwards compatible okay we're using
Caption: expand expand rollout contract
Caption: or some features toggling mechanism and
Caption: so we minimize the coordination that we
Caption: need between teams
Caption: uh because we're not breaking other
Caption: people
Caption: and we're doing this all the time so
Caption: it's proven and our deployments uh
Caption: deployment failures are rare
Caption: um they they happen but we have we have
Caption: a rollback procedure and everything
Caption: works smoothly
Caption: okay so deploying at speed is not a leap
Caption: of faith okay you don't just throw stuff
Caption: into production and just cross your
Caption: fingers and hope right
Caption: it's having that safety removes the fear
Caption: okay and that safety allows us to deploy
Caption: at speed
Caption: that's it thank you
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: um so I think I assume we've got heaps
Caption: of time for questions yeah so yeah thank
Caption: you very much still
Caption: um now I've got
Caption: to owe for a q a session uh has anyone
Caption: got any questions for them
Caption: um I guess being sort of still new to
Caption: developing or whatever so wondering what
Caption: these type of manual deployment
Caption: processes kind of look like if they're
Caption: like that much of a pain
Caption: um
Caption: what do manual deployment processes look
Caption: like
Caption: um I guess
Caption: I don't know it could it's different in
Caption: every company uh so if
Caption: I I guess I'm thinking about uh you know
Caption: maybe the old days where you're ftping
Caption: your files onto a PHP server or
Caption: something and then
Caption: um or like manually copying your you
Caption: know Wi-Fi onto a server that's like a
Caption: pet server that you keep alive
Caption: um you know specifically and you don't
Caption: you know create new ones all the time
Caption: you know like it's not basically
Caption: um because that machine is uh you know
Caption: set up by some person
Caption: um somewhere five years ago that has
Caption: since left the company so you you're
Caption: you're looking at you know setting up
Caption: um VMS via code and basically all the
Caption: pieces of infrastructure that you need
Caption: are set up by a code that's that's the
Caption: automated like way I know that's sort of
Caption: very vague but it is totally different
Caption: in every it depends what you're
Caption: deploying foreign
Caption: next question
Caption: um I guess this depends a lot on talking
Caption: about client-side or um how do you prove
Caption: that
Caption: you know you need to expand the contract
Caption: for example how do you prove
Caption: the say a property
Caption: of an external
Caption: API yeah yes yeah so I guess you're so
Caption: sorry internal I mean within an
Caption: organization but so within within an
Caption: organization it's uh ideally much easier
Caption: um uh so like there's there's plenty of
Caption: tools out there like
Caption: um ideally organization's got some sort
Caption: of co-depository and everyone can see
Caption: that the usage of that code you know uh
Caption: you should be able to know the
Caption: dependencies of each of the systems so
Caption: um
Caption: I guess I'm thinking about
Caption: um like Library like client libraries so
Caption: um so if you're talking between apis an
Caption: API might output some sort of client
Caption: library and so you know that know the
Caption: people that depend on that client
Caption: Library so you can check
Caption: those usages
Caption: external is much harder is a much harder
Caption: thing it's essentially a library right
Caption: so you have to you have to deprecate
Caption: fields and give comms to that and
Caption: um wait a lot more time that that
Caption: becomes a much harder deal but
Caption: internally
Caption: this stuff is it shouldn't be hard it is
Caption: for all sorts of reasons but it
Caption: shouldn't be hard and you can you can
Caption: make great strides internally at least
Caption: um I think I don't know I feel like that
Caption: was super vague but yeah there's
Caption: definitely tools out there
Caption: thank you
Caption: hey Dylan
Caption: you hear me no
Caption: he's turned off there yeah there we go
Caption: I'm just going to expand on that
Caption: question so a few years ago I had a bit
Caption: of experience working with you
Caption: um and here we go
Caption: it was an awesome experience but um I
Caption: love the expand roll out contract but
Caption: adding to that question we experimented
Caption: with like consumer driven
Caption: um contract testing yeah but it never
Caption: really seemed to take hold it never
Caption: really seemed to
Caption: um like work and I was just wondering
Caption: where did it land like um did you get it
Caption: working or did you find other ways uh so
Caption: so I have seen other implementations
Caption: that worked
Caption: um but we ended up ripping it out
Caption: um and going for as I was sort of
Caption: talking about before having a a client
Caption: um
Caption: so each API would spit out a client
Caption: library and for either like back-end
Caption: services so like Java or front end as
Caption: well
Caption: and the key to that is also that
Caption: um so we would
Caption: um so we had a lot of issues early days
Caption: where we would make backwards
Caption: incompatible changes so we would just
Caption: sort of forget about consumers and break
Caption: them
Caption: um thinking that contract testing was
Caption: going to help us
Caption: so we ended up writing
Caption: um and there's again there's plenty of
Caption: tools out there that sort of check your
Caption: Swagger and fail your build when you
Caption: make backwards incompatible changes
Caption: that's not to say that you that you
Caption: can't make them but you have to do it in
Caption: a measured way so you don't make them
Caption: unless you have sort of proven and sort
Caption: of gone through all your you know git
Caption: repos and checked that the other
Caption: consumers are not using that field or
Caption: that endpoint anymore and
Caption: and that's usually just a case of a
Caption: search
Caption: but but yeah first of all you don't make
Caption: those backwards incompatible changes by
Caption: default at least
Caption: cool thank you
Caption: uh yeah about feature toggling so I've
Caption: seen feature toggling uh fail terribly
Caption: uh thankfully not because of me but of
Caption: some people and I was a very fortunate
Caption: spectator about it so so I've seen it
Caption: fail many times even though I were I was
Caption: perfectly capable of doing so also my
Caption: project my question is that um do you
Caption: think feature toggling is more of an
Caption: engineering thing than a devops thingy
Caption: um so so I have devops in my the talk
Caption: title but I think
Caption: I think the concept of having it so
Caption: first of all I think the concept of
Caption: having devops as a as a role or
Caption: something feels like it's defeating the
Caption: purpose of devops
Caption: um but uh I guess
Caption: uh
Caption: I think I've lost track of what I was
Caption: thinking what ask your question again
Caption: sorry
Caption: yeah okay so so that's I guess my
Caption: thought is it should there's there's no
Caption: distinction for me
Caption: um engineering Engineers are the like
Caption: the whole point of devops is that you've
Caption: just got
Caption: smart people doing like work right
Caption: ideally right so so so the the point of
Caption: devops is like that you're you're
Caption: bringing in all these um people and
Caption: working together so I mean maybe it's
Caption: not one person maybe it's one team but
Caption: um but distinguishing between like
Caption: actually
Caption: uh having a specific role for devops
Caption: doesn't make sense to me because you're
Caption: just a team of people working towards
Caption: improving
Caption: yeah yeah
Caption: Yeah well yeah
Caption: yeah I had to learn um yeah my question
Caption: is also about feature toggling so I've
Caption: seen you know teams losing track of the
Caption: toggles not keeping up
Caption: um did you have any kind of tooling
Caption: um in place or also you kind of present
Caption: it to maybe the business and look that's
Caption: that's in production now we we turn it
Caption: on and then we clean it up kind because
Caption: let's say 14 30 components yeah you
Caption: might lose them yeah yeah so so that was
Caption: a that's a big thing for us so
Caption: um so Bankwest we're using um sort of uh
Caption: uh I would say like internal tools for
Caption: for the feature toggles and also
Caption: managing them uh but we
Caption: we definitely had visibility of what
Caption: toggles each team owned
Caption: um how long they'd been
Caption: um turned on uh the state of them in
Caption: each of our environments
Caption: um so we had full visibility and you
Caption: know
Caption: I don't know it seemed silly but like if
Caption: they got too old they would go they
Caption: would go red right we would know that
Caption: this thing is getting old um there was
Caption: like a it has to be a conscious decision
Caption: to keep that thing around because it's
Caption: like in your face
Caption: um and like uh you know that was all
Caption: custom stuff but like tools like launch
Caption: Darkly and stuff um which are the you
Caption: know popular popular ones in the um you
Caption: know outside world uh they they have all
Caption: this stuff like you can see how old
Caption: toggles are and um you know we we
Caption: basically wouldn't start work
Caption: um or wouldn't be able to deliver our
Caption: new feature until we'd gotten rid of the
Caption: old feature toggles
Caption: um so like yeah I mean that's a bit of
Caption: process but like you have to have that
Caption: ability to you know something to audit
Caption: like removing stuff otherwise I just
Caption: forget it's forgotten about
Caption: um
Caption: appointment but as a consumer of the
Caption: database and I did a lot of analytic
Caption: um machine learning and in your example
Caption: you change the field name that will
Caption: break my code
Caption: how you um make my life easy as well
Caption: yeah right so so
Caption: um I guess that's why that's why you're
Caption: taking the measured approach of not
Caption: renaming it's so there's no such thing
Caption: as a rename basically
Caption: um there's there's a an ad and a remove
Caption: but it's a considered step so
Caption: um in the case of say a database you
Caption: would be adding a column and populating
Caption: both columns okay and no one's using
Caption: that other column you would migrate the
Caption: data into that other column maybe as a
Caption: second step only once both columns are
Caption: sort of working in tandem then you can
Caption: switch over to actually using that new
Caption: column so then that would be at the
Caption: point that you would start to use that
Caption: new column and once we've proven that
Caption: your using it and so is everyone else
Caption: then we can drop that that other column
Caption: that would be the approach
Caption: thank you
Caption: hello
Caption: um I have for testing
Caption: when do you use a load balancer and to
Caption: divert some of your traffic to the new
Caption: feature and roll it out slowly rather
Caption: than use feature request
Caption: um
Caption: so that's to be honest not something
Caption: I've really ever tried
Caption: um it's
Caption: uh I'm sure it's a valid approach but
Caption: most of the stuff that I have done is
Caption: more about
Caption: um you would deploy
Caption: um so I guess that's more about like uh
Caption: uh what's called like
Caption: like basically shadowing requests to
Caption: some sort of um to some sort of system
Caption: before you take it and make it live but
Caption: yeah I I don't have experience
Caption: personally most of it most of the things
Caption: I do is like you actually deploy the
Caption: thing into production
Caption: um and the code is inactive so so you
Caption: actually you're not really having two
Caption: versions running at once you're just
Caption: switching over and then you can uh
Caption: control uh turn on some toggle or some
Caption: toggle for specific users yeah it's more
Caption: about that that's easier to reason about
Caption: in my head
Caption: um so I guess it's pretty much down to
Caption: the concept that we're deploying with a
Caption: high level of frequency
Caption: which implies to me that
Caption: we're more prone to
Caption: put bugs into the production environment
Caption: although I understand that's probably
Caption: with a smaller user base yeah
Caption: how do you
Caption: Rush rationalize that like is is it just
Caption: subjective do you go oh well these users
Caption: are prepared to cop it so it's okay or
Caption: what's going on there yeah yeah okay so
Caption: I totally get that so we're so releasing
Caption: more often uh more likely that code is
Caption: less ready and getting into the hands of
Caption: our users right so so the key thing is
Caption: that ideally where ex so with feature
Caption: toggles you're exposing less of your
Caption: users
Caption: um so you're maybe only exposing your
Caption: team initially right and I know that's
Caption: hard for depending on your system
Caption: because some depending on your system
Caption: your your users are
Caption: um
Caption: like your team is not really able to dog
Caption: food you're you're out right
Caption: um particularly in the case of Bankwest
Caption: where
Caption: um like our my team wasn't applying for
Caption: a home loan every week
Caption: um so so but we've got other
Caption: environments where we do that right
Caption: where we might turn on in that
Caption: particular environment we might turn on
Caption: just for my team until until we're
Caption: really happy so we're not even affecting
Caption: other teams we're just affecting my team
Caption: okay the team that's actually building
Caption: out that functionality
Caption: um it's it's definitely a risk
Caption: um but I would trade it off with
Caption: um the fact that if you're bulking up
Caption: you know two months of changes and
Caption: sending that into production and that
Caption: breaks like
Caption: well what went wrong
Caption: two months of work like I have to sift
Caption: through two months of work to figure out
Caption: what the hell went wrong that's going to
Caption: take me much longer than say that one
Caption: thing that I send it right I guess just
Caption: to add to that so it is it seems like it
Caption: is kind of subjective we haven't
Caption: necessarily been able to quantify doing
Caption: this way has less impact than doing the
Caption: other way it just like seems that way
Caption: because we're not as stressed in the
Caption: yeah it's a large releases of
Caption: deployments yeah
Caption: um but yeah I I don't I don't have no
Caption: for sure I don't I don't have I don't
Caption: have numbers
Caption: um but I uh I guess
Caption: uh I guess I've definitely seen the
Caption: alternative
Caption: um so from my experience
Caption: um I've seen deployments go wrong and go
Caption: go wrong catastrophically way more
Caption: um uh when you're deploying you know
Caption: monthly or whatever yes it seems like
Caption: the impact will be less with a higher
Caption: frequency of deployment even if there
Caption: are more bugs they're not less damaging
Caption: so maybe that's okay and it's and it's
Caption: way less stress as a developer which
Caption: ideally uh also in turn makes for Less
Caption: bugs but for sure I don't have numbers
Caption: no thanks
Caption: oh great
Caption: um so I also I work at a bank I work for
Caption: up which is now owned by Bendigo so we
Caption: we ship six to ten times a day but
Caption: Bendigo might ship once every few months
Caption: um were there any things you had to do
Caption: to bring the other teams within the bank
Caption: along this journey to allow you to
Caption: ship multiple times a day and release
Caption: more frequently thinking like Risk teams
Caption: and those yeah yeah so that's definitely
Caption: um
Caption: uh
Caption: that's definitely a hard one right
Caption: um and I think uh what made it possible
Caption: at least at Bankwest was uh the setup of
Caption: the team so so again when when these
Caption: things arise say for deployments we we
Caption: brought in our system Engineers into the
Caption: team
Caption: so actually having
Caption: like bringing the critical people
Caption: um on the par like critical expertise
Caption: bring them actually into our our teams
Caption: even or our you know our project sphere
Caption: or whatever you want to call it
Caption: um but actually bringing them in so so
Caption: their goals are your goals
Caption: um it's like it's not an easy problem
Caption: for sure
Caption: um there's a lot of different
Caption: disciplines that need to be involved but
Caption: ideally where you can bring them in and
Caption: so you're both heading in that same
Caption: direction
Caption: um
Caption: yeah is that something to do with your
Caption: methodology as well like being truly at
Caption: jar as well and having that framework
Caption: across the organization to accept
Caption: continuous
Caption: development yeah I think that's
Caption: like all this stuff is a is a constant
Caption: um
Caption: well you constantly hit up against these
Caption: sort of problems but also you're
Caption: constantly trying to improve
Caption: um and you know any organization is not
Caption: going to be
Caption: homogenous right it's that all different
Caption: areas are going to be totally different
Caption: and working totally different ways but
Caption: um yeah I think if you can somehow align
Caption: on like what you're trying to achieve
Caption: um
Caption: that's that's how you get that done
Caption: thank you very much cool it was a great
Caption: presentation
Caption: [Applause]